Some common [metonymies](../figs-metonymy/01.md) and [metaphors](../figs-metaphor/01.md) from the Bible involving man-made objects or are listed below in alphabetical order. The word in all capital letters identifies an Image that represents an Idea. The specific word of the Image may not appear in every verse that uses the Image, but the text will communicate somehow the concept of the Image.

#### BRONZE represents strength

> He trains…my arms to bend a bow of **bronze**. (Psalm 18:34 ULT)


#### CHAINS represent control

> Let us tear off the **shackles** they put on us and throw off their **chains**. Psalm 2:3


#### CLOTHING represents moral or emotional qualities (attitudes, spirit, life)

> It is God who puts strength on me like a **belt**. (Psalm 18:32 ULT)
  
> Righteousness will be the **belt of his waist**, and faithfulness the **belt around his hips**. (Isaiah 11:5 ULT) 
  
> May my adversaries be **clothed with shame**; may they **wear their shame like a robe**. (Psalm 109:29 ULT)
  
> I will **clothe his enemies with shame**. (Psalm 132:18 ULT)

#### A HOUSE represents a family or household (that is, the people who live and work at a family house or property)

> Now Yahweh said to Abram, “Go from your country, and from your relatives, and from your father’s **household**, to the land that I will show you. (Genesis 12:1 ULT)

> On that day, the king Ahasuerus gave to Esther the queen the **house** of Haman, the adversary of the Jews. 

> They said, “Believe in the Lord Jesus, and you will be saved, you and your **household**.” 32 They spoke the word of the Lord to him, together with everyone in his house. 33 Then the jailer took them at the same hour of the night, and washed their wounds, and he and those in his entire house were baptized immediately. (Acts 16:31-33 ULT)

In the original languages (Hebrew and Greek), the words translated here as “household” literally mean “house.”  The word “house” is a metonym for the people who live in the house. This is a very common metonym in the Bible.


#### A SNARE (that is, a SMALL TRAP for birds worked by cords) represents death

> For he will rescue you from the **snare** of the hunter.  (Psalm 91:3 ULT)
  
> The **cords of death** surrounded me, and the **snares** of sheol confronted me. (Psalm 116:3 ULT) 
  
> The **cords of the wicked** have **ensnared** me. (Psalm 119:61 ULT)
  
> The wicked have **set a snare** for me.  (Psalm 119:110 ULT) 
  
> The wicked is **ensnared** by his own actions. (Psalm 9:16 ULT)
  
> They mingled with the nations and learned their ways and worshiped their idols, which became **a snare** to them. (Psalm 106:35-36 ULT)

In this case the snare was a persuasion to do evil, which leads to death.

#### A TENT represents a house, home, people in one’s home, descendants

> God will likewise destroy you forever; he will take you up and pluck you out of your tent. (Psalm 52:5 ULT)
  
> The house of the wicked will be destroyed, but the tent of the upright will flourish. (Proverbs 14:11 ULT)
  
> A throne will be established in covenant faithfulness, and one from David’s tent will faithfully sit there. (Isaiah 16:5 ULT)
